>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
things going into the reducer
asynchronously was one
part of the challenge.
The next part of my journey into NgRx is,
well, what happens if you need to
either connect related models together,
or you need to perform some kind of data
manipulation before it lands in your
component before it's consumed?
And so, for this, I am going to show you
how to do computed data with selector.
So we saw some basic selectors
in two modules previous.
But we're going to extend
that just a little bit, and
I'll show you how that you
can take a selector and
do some combinatory kind
of logic to produce a new
and interesting data structure that
you can use to suit your needs.
So I think we're done
with actions effects, and
so what we'll do is we'll
go into our reducer.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Or rather,
let's go into the top level reducer.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
let's start to build this out.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
one thing we haven't done is,
we've been working with the collection in
terms of create, read, update, and delete.
But we haven't done very much
around the selected Project ID.
In other words, when you select it, not
a lot is happening at the reducer level.
So just internally,
we're still managing it in the component.
But let's promote that, and
I'll show a use case for
using computer data and a selector.
So export const, we're gonna call this
selectCurrentProjectId = createSelector.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then within here, we're going to
obviously do selectProjectState, and
we'll go with fromProjects,
getSelectedProjectId.
So we're pulling this in from a rehearsal,
just taking state and
giving you the SelectedProjectId.
So if we go back into our reducer,
now what we can do is
we can say, export const.
So we're going to just get,
well, we have the ID but
how do we get the project
that it's associated with?
So selectCurrentProject,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: = createSelector.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: From here,
we're going to selectProjectEntities,
and we'll go selectCurrent,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: ProjectId, and
then we're going to add in
a third parameter here.
So one thing that I'll point
out is if you click in here and
you look at this type script definition,
this is a very, very overloaded function.
I mean, it just goes on,
and on, and on, and on.
In other words, you can pass in,
I don't know, where the madness stops, but
at least up to 8, which I would say,
if you need more than that,
you might have an architectural problem.
But it will take one, two, three.
And so, the third parameter is
going to be a function, that
is going to essentially be the results of
the previous parameter that we sent to it.
So projectEntities, and projectId.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
from here, well, let's do,
we can keep this pretty simple at first.
We can return projectEntities[projectId].
And so, this is the advantage of kind
of breaking these out into IDs and
entities is that it takes,
this looks this up in almost real-time.
So now, we have selectCurrentProjectId
and,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll
go into our barrel up here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Make sure I
pull this from the right place.
I make a lot of mistakes but
I don't make a lot of them over and over.
Now, we'll go into our project component.
And what we can do is,
right now, currentProject is,
well, we're just dealing with this object.
It's essentially scoped
to be presentation state.
So we go, currentProject, observable
stream,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Go here.
And so, I'm gonna leave this here for
just a moment.
Actually no,
let's just take that off, why not?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then, you can go here,
this.currentProjects = store.pipe(select).
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then,
we just pass this selector in.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And make sure
that came in from the right place,
selectCurrentProject, from core-data,
thank you very much.
And I think we're good here.
Now, let's go into our projects component.
We'll update currentProject to use
the observable stream version,
and then we'll go async.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And now, what we need
to do is make sure that in our component
that,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll need
to update these, because we're no longer
handling this at the presentation level.
So when we want to select a project,
we'll go this.store.dispatch, and
let me just make sure
that in our action object
that we have, Project selected right here.
SelectProject, and
so,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
So everything is here, so
we should be able to new,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: SelectProject, and
we'll go project.id.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now, what we could
also do is in the resetCurrentProject,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is we can just go
null.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I believe this is,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Everything
that we need, all right.
So,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I
see some crude lines,
let me just fix that out.
Looks good.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
when we select this,
that if we go into our dev tools,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That
we're dispatching the ID.
But then, when we, so
every time the ID changes,
so notice it's selecting,
that ID is changing on the store,
which is then triggering in the selector.
If go down here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm
just going to return this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll do SELECTOR!,
and we'll just go projectId.
Save this,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Go to Console.
Notice that as I select this down here,
every time I change it,
it's changing at the store, but
then it's firing the selector.
And so, it's basically, hey,
something changed, let's go ahead and
trigger this and do this cascade of the
selectors that you've composed together.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So now,
the kind of the final piece to this,
is if we go into our project component,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's take this out,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And instead,
let's move this into our selector.
And so, we can do a couple things.
I could put it right in here, I could put
it in like, a constant file or something.
I'll just set it near the selector so
that we know what we're working with.
And so, now that we have kind of
this empty project, we can now say,
well, for instance,
what if you want to reset the project?
So inside of this, we can do, well,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is our projectId?
If so, return the appropriate project.
If not, then return emptyProject.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so, this is kind
of a nice way to say that I'm going to
control and I want to compute on the fly,
depending on the current selected project.
If it's either null, so
there's no selected project, or
there is a selected project that
you can dynamically compute and
determine what is going to
be fed into your component.
What's interesting about this,
is if we go back to the component,
that the component itself is like,
were starting to move these concerns out.
And so, the terms of like,
does it have an ID or not?
Well, empty project or full project?
Well now, the component,
it doesn't really care about that.
It's just going to display
whatever you feed into it.
And this is where we want to
move is to have very thin
components where a lot of these things
of like, you get an empty object or
not, whatever is removing further up.
Does that make sense?
Another thing that we could do
just hypothetically, for example,
if you notice here that we have like,
we're getting all the customers.
And customers is coming, so
this is all coming from the REST API.
And so, if we look at this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now
we have a customer, and
if we go down to the project,
that the projects have customer IDs.
So wouldn't it be cool if you could
actually take the customers and
get the project ID.
So I'll just real quick, take a second,
and show what that might look like.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
const selectCustomerProjects, or
I would actually do
CustomersProjects cuz it's like,
many the merrier,
cuz that what it feels like it should be.
And so, in order for
this to work, what do we need?
Well, we need selectAllCustomers,
what else?
selectAllProjects, and
then we need to put them together.
So we'll go customers, projects,
and then what we're going to return,
is we'll go object or rather,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Return customers and
we're gonna map over this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
what we want to do is return a new,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Object that is made up
of,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All of
the customer properties.
So we're just gonna take that,
expand it out.
But what we also want to do is go
projects, and from here,
we're going to go projects.filter
project,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
we're just going to return any project,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: ID that matches, or
rather customerId that
matches customer.id.
And so, if you are going
to do something like this,
this would be very kind of
specific to what you're doing.
But we're basically saying,
get all the customers, all the projects,
we're mapping over the customers.
And we're saying, for every customer,
we basically wanna create a new
customer object, but we want to
add in this additional thing here.
And that is, loop over the projects and
give us just the projects
that map to this customerId.
And so, when either one of these would
change, then it would re-compute and
return that particular data.
So you can get super fancy or
you can do something that's just simply,
I want to control when I select
the project that it's either going to be
something or it's going to be an empty
object that I can then use to create.